some superheroes can grow to the size of
a building at will
that's very intimidating but a scientist
must ask where the extra material is
coming from the law of conservation of
mass implies that mass can neither be
created nor destroyed which means that
our hero's mass will not change just
because his size changes for instance
when we bake a fluffy sponge cake hmm
even though the resulting delicious
treat is much bigger in size than the
cake batter that went into the oven the
weight of the cake batter should still
equal the weight of the cake plus the
moisture that has evaporated in a
chemical equation molecules rearrange to
make new compounds but all the
components should still be accounted for
when our hero expands from 6 feet tall
to 18 feet tall his height triples
Galileo's square-cube law says his
weight will be 27 3 times 3 times 3
equals 27 times his regular weight since
he has to expand in all three dimensions
so when our superhero transforms into a
giant we are dealing with two
possibilities
our hero towering at 18 feet still only
weighs 200 pounds the original weight in
his human form now option 2 our hero
weighs 5,400 pounds 200 pounds times 27
equals 5,400 poems when he is 18 feet
tall which means he also weighs 5,400
pounds when he is 6 feet tall hmm nobody
can get in the same elevator with him
without the alarm going off now option 2
seems a little more scientifically
plausible but it begs the question how
does he ever walk through the park
without sinking into the ground since
the pressure he is exerting on the soil
is calculated by his mass divided by the
area of the bottom of his feet and what
kind of super sucks in super shoes is he
putting on his feet to withstand all the
fridge
that results from dragging his 50
400-pound body against the road when he
runs oh and can he even run and I won't
even ask how he finds pants flexible
enough to withstand the expansion Wow
now let's explore the density of the two
options mentioned above density is
defined as mass divided by volume the
human body is made out of bones and
flesh which has a relatively set density
in option 1 if the hero weighs 200
pounds all the time then he would be
bones and flesh at normal size when he
expands to a bigger size while still
weighing 200 pounds he essentially turns
himself into a giant fluffy teddy bear
hi in option 2 if the hero weighs 5,400
pounds all the time then he would be
bones and flesh at 18 feet with 5,400
pounds of weight supported by two legs
the weight will be exerted on the leg
bones at different angles as he moves
bones while hard are not malleable
meaning they do not Bend so they break
easily the tendons would also be at risk
of tearing tall buildings stay standing
because they have steel frames and do
not run and jump around in the jungle
our hero on the other hand one landing
at a bad angle and he's down Oh
assuming his bodily function is the same
as any mammals his heart would need to
pump a large amount of blood throughout
his body to provide enough oxygen for
him to move 5,400 pounds of body weight
around this would take tremendous energy
which he would need to provide by
consuming 27 times 3000 calories of food
every day now that is roughly 150 Big
Macs 27 times 3000 calculated equals 81
thousand calculated slash 550 calories
equals 147 he wouldn't have time to
fight crime because he would be eating
all the time and working a nine-to-five
job in order to afford all the food eats
ooh and what about superheroes who can
turn their bodies into rock
or sand well everything on earth is made
out of elements and what defines each
element is the number of protons in the
nucleus that is how our periodic table
is organized hydrogen has one proton
helium two protons lithium three protons
and so on the primary component of the
most common form of sand is silicon
dioxide meanwhile the human body
consists of 65 percent oxygen 18 percent
carbon 10 percent hydrogen and seven
percent of various other elements
including 0.002%
of silicon in a chemical reaction the
elements recombine to make new compounds
so where is he getting all the silicon
necessary to make the sand sure we can
alter elements by nuclear fusion or
nuclear fission
however nuclear fusion requires so much
heat the only natural occurrence of this
process is in stars in order to utilize
fusion in a short amount of time the
temperature of the area needs to be
hotter than the Sun every innocent
bystander will be burned to a crisp Wow
rapid nuclear fission is not any better
since it often results in many
radioactive particles our hero would
become a walking talking nuclear power
plant ultimately harming every person he
tries to save and do you really want the
heat of the Sun or a radioactive nuclear
plant inside of your body
mmm burns
now which superpower physics lesson will
you explore next shifting body size and
content super speed flight super
strength immortality and invisibility
you